proto/README.md, before:

# Protocol Buffers

We are using Google Protocol Buffers to standardize presentation-layer data
serialization in the communication protocols between the MCU firmware and the
backend server and between the GUI frontend and the backend server.

## Firmware/Backend

The message schemas for communication between the backend server and the  MCU
firmware are defined in `mcu_pb.proto`. To update, you will need to modify that
file and then regenerate the C++ classes for the MCU firmware and the Python
classes for the backend.

To update the Python classes at `backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf/mcu_pb.py`,
first install the `betterproto` package using pip with the `[compiler]` feature flag:
```bash
$ pip install "betterproto[compiler]"
```
Then run, from this directory:

```bash
$ export $PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc  # replace the path with the one for your computer

$ # Generate Python Code
$ $PROTOC -I=. --python_betterproto_out=../backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf mcu_pb.proto
```

Note that if you installed the `protobuf-compiler` package on Ubuntu, then you
should replace `$PROTOC` with `protoc`.

To update the C++ classes at
`firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Inc/Pufferfish/Protocols/mcu_pb.pb.h` and
`firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Src/Pufferfish/Protocols/mcu_pb.pb.c`,
the easiest way is to install nanopb with pip, and run, from this directory:

```bash
$ export $PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc

$ # Generate C++ Code
$ nanopb_generator -I=. --output-dir="../firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Inc/Pufferfish/Protocols" mcu_pb.proto
```

Note that after generating these files, you will need to move
`firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Inc/Pufferfish/Protocols/mcu_pb.pb.c`
to `firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Src/Pufferfish/Protocols/mcu_pb.pb.c`.

## Frontend/Backend

The message schemas for communication between the backend demo and the frontend
demo are defined in both `mcu_pb.proto` and `frontend_pb.proto`. Currently these
are separated so that backend/frontend-specific protocol buffers don't get compiled
into the firmware.

To update the Python classes at `backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf`,
first install the `betterproto` package using pip, then run:

```bash
$ export $PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc  # replace the path with the one for your computer

$ # Generate Python Code
$ $PROTOC -I=. --python_betterproto_out=../backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf mcu_pb.proto
$ $PROTOC -I=. --python_betterproto_out=../backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf frontend_pb.proto
```

Note that if you installed the `protobuf-compiler` package on Ubuntu, then you
should replace `$PROTOC` with `protoc`.

To update the TypeScript classes at `frontend/src/store/controller/proto`,
first install the `typescript`, `google-protobuf`, and `protoc-gen-ts` packages
globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g typescript
$ npm install -g google-protobuf
$ npm install -g protoc-gen-ts
```

Then run, from this directory:

```bash
$ export $PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc  # replace the path with the one for your computer

$ # Generate TypeScript Code (make sure to run yarn install in frontend first)
$ $PROTOC -I=. --ts_proto_out=../frontend/src/store/controller/proto --plugin="../frontend/node_modules/ts-proto/protoc-gen-ts_proto" mcu_pb.proto
$ $PROTOC -I=. --ts_proto_out=../frontend/src/store/controller/proto --plugin="../frontend/node_modules/ts-proto/protoc-gen-ts_proto" frontend_pb.proto
```

Note that if you installed the `protobuf-compiler` package on Ubuntu, then you
should replace `$PROTOC` with `protoc`.

Commit message:

Communication protocol and breathing circuit simulation (#171)
* Import classes from pez-globo/pufferfish-software-prototype-v1

* Fix import issues

* Improve nanopb protobuf generation

* Add a C++ layer of insulation around nanopb

* Make StateSynchronization generic and move it out

* Make Messages more generic and move it out

* Apply clang-tidy autofixes

* Apply clang-format autofixes

* Manually resolve cppcheck issues

* Deduce array init size, manually resolve some clang-tidy errors

* Add nanopb generator script to postprocess nanopb output

* Manually resolve more clang-tidy issues

* Refactor ByteArray into Vector

* Manually resolve more clang-tidy issues

* Apply clang-format autofixes

* Refactor Datagram to remove const-removal cast

* Simplify Frames class return codes, make Datagrams more generic

* Decompose CRCElement out of Datagram, in preparation for NVM storage

* Move Datagrams & CRCElements to Protocols, decouple States from Messages

* Decouple StateSynchronizer from Messages

* Manually resolve remaining cppcheck and clang-tidy issues

* Refactor UARTBackend for non-blocking send

* Refactor PC-AC simulator and add volume plot

* Add HFNC simulator

* Implement multi-mode simulator

proto/README.md, after:

# Protocol Buffers

We are using Google Protocol Buffers to standardize presentation-layer data
serialization in the communication protocols between the MCU firmware and the
backend server and between the GUI frontend and the backend server.

## Firmware/Backend

The message schemas for communication between the backend server and the  MCU
firmware are defined in `mcu_pb.proto`. To update, you will need to modify that
file and then regenerate the C++ classes for the MCU firmware and the Python
classes for the backend.

To update the Python classes at `backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf/mcu_pb.py`,
first install the `betterproto` package using pip with the `[compiler]` feature flag:
```bash
$ pip install "betterproto[compiler]"
```
Then run, from this directory:

```bash
$ export PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc  # replace the path with the one for your computer

$ # Generate Python Code
$ $PROTOC -I=. --python_betterproto_out=../backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf mcu_pb.proto
```

Note that if you installed the `protobuf-compiler` package on Ubuntu, then you
should replace `$PROTOC` with `protoc`.

To update the C++ classes at
`firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Inc/Pufferfish/Application/mcu_pb.h` and
`firmware/ventilator-controller-stm32/Core/Src/Pufferfish/Application/mcu_pb.c`,
the easiest way is to install nanopb with pip, and run the `generate_mcu.sh` script:

```bash
$ # Install nanopb
$ pip3 install nanopb


$ # Generate C++ Code
$ ../proto/generate_mcu.sh
```

## Frontend/Backend

The message schemas for communication between the backend demo and the frontend
demo are defined in both `mcu_pb.proto` and `frontend_pb.proto`. Currently these
are separated so that backend/frontend-specific protocol buffers don't get compiled
into the firmware.

To update the Python classes at `backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf`,
first install the `betterproto` package using pip, then run:

```bash
$ export PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc  # replace the path with the one for your computer

$ # Generate Python Code
$ $PROTOC -I=. --python_betterproto_out=../backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf mcu_pb.proto
$ $PROTOC -I=. --python_betterproto_out=../backend/ventserver/protocols/protobuf frontend_pb.proto
```

Note that if you installed the `protobuf-compiler` package on Ubuntu, then you
should replace `$PROTOC` with `protoc`.

To update the TypeScript classes at `frontend/src/store/controller/proto`,
first install the `typescript`, `google-protobuf`, and `protoc-gen-ts` packages
globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g typescript
$ npm install -g google-protobuf
$ npm install -g protoc-gen-ts
```

Then run, from this directory:

```bash
$ export PROTOC=/path/to/local/bin/protoc  # replace the path with the one for your computer

$ # Generate TypeScript Code (make sure to run yarn install in frontend first)
$ $PROTOC -I=. --ts_proto_out=../frontend/src/store/controller/proto --plugin="../frontend/node_modules/ts-proto/protoc-gen-ts_proto" mcu_pb.proto
$ $PROTOC -I=. --ts_proto_out=../frontend/src/store/controller/proto --plugin="../frontend/node_modules/ts-proto/protoc-gen-ts_proto" frontend_pb.proto
```

Note that if you installed the `protobuf-compiler` package on Ubuntu, then you
should replace `$PROTOC` with `protoc`.
